---
layout: post
title: USA Trip 2023 - Reflections - Part 3
---

The next week was quite busy with work. On one of the evenings, we went to a park in San Mateo county that was right next to the sea. This park was basically a jogging/walking track with some sit-outs to enjoy the cool ocean breeze and watch the sunset/sunrise. Being close to San Francisco, we could see a number of planes arriving in San Francisco airport. After a relaxed walk along the track and watching the sunset, we headed back to our hotel stopping at a super market on the way. One evening, I met my old colleagues for dinner and it felt so nice to meet them after a long time. We had great conversation over some great Italian food and ended the evening with nice memories. On an another evening, I met my cousin who was living in San Jose. We went to Palo Alto to try out the famous ramen – we had to stand in queue for 30 minutes to get inside the restaurant. After the dinner, we had a walk around the Palo Alto downtown and had ice cream at a quirky ice cream parlor. I got to try some interesting ice cream flavors and ended the evening with sweet taste in my mouth and mind.

Before we could realize, it was time for us to return the rental car. But before that, I made a surprise purchase – Apple Airpods – at Best Buy. I had always wanted to buy some very good quality earphones that had active noise cancellation, single ear playback, etc. Having an iPhone, the natural choice was the Airpods Pro. Using my office credits, I made the big purchase. I must admit – the Airpods were magic! The way they paired with my iPhone, settings, controls and the build quality – everything about it screamed Apple. It’s the visceral feel of the Apple products that captures the users into its ecosystem and I was no exception. I am slowly but steadily becoming an ardent Apple fan. That evening, I finished the last of my work duties for my visit to the USA and then got ready for the weekend to have some fun.

Next morning was my time to check-out from the hotel and vacate my room. It would be injustice to call it just a room; it was my home for the last 2 weeks. Though it’s just a place for you to stay temporarily, you tend to develop a kind of attachment with the place and it starts growing on you slowly. I was no different – the room I stayed in had all the amenities for a perfect business stay, complete with facilities such as a mini kitchen with all the utensils needed to cook a wholesome meal, a large TV, work desk, plush bed and sofa, decent bathroom and an ironing stand. Whether it was a long day at work or a tiring drive, my room was always ready to welcome me home and relax. And the way I used to snug into the bed with the sheets on me – that gave me the warm and cozy sleep I needed. It may sound weird to get attached to a hotel room so much, but this is me. So with a heavy heart, I bid farewell to the room and proceeded with my plans.
